How many are ready for the Word of God today? Hey,
hey, we've got 2,000 people in Houston, Texas.
Let's welcome them. How many in Houston are ready
for the Word of God today? Yes, Lord. It's going
to be a good day. And you know how you can know
that? Look who you're sitting next to. Why would
God sit you next to somebody that good-looking if
it wasn't going to be a good day? Praise the Lord.
I am going to be sharing today from Exodus,
chapter 4. Please remain standing for the Word
of God. "The grass withers, the flower fades, but
the Word of the Lord stands forever." Y'all need
to learn the Bible better so you can quote it when
I quote it. "The grass withers, the flower fades,
but the Word of the Lord stands forever." Amen.
The Word of the Lord in Exodus, chapter 4,
may be a familiar Scripture, but there is one
thing I want to highlight for your life today.
By the way, if you're watching online, just put in
the comments, "I'm here." Let us know that you're
joining too. And if you're here in person,
just go ahead and shout it at me too. Say,
"I'm here. I'm awake. I had my coffee,
and I want a breakthrough." All right.
When we see this meeting in Exodus, chapter 4,
we are walking into the middle of a mess. That's
where God likes to work the most. Exodus 4:1:
"Moses answered, 'What if they do not believe
me or listen to me and say, "The Lord did not
appear to you"?' Then the Lord said to him,
'What is that in your hand?' 'A staff,' he
replied. The Lord said, 'Throw it on the ground.'"
I feel like he probably hollered at him, because
it's a pretty weird thing he's asking him to do
here, so the Lord said it with confidence.
"Throw it on the ground." "Moses threw it on
the ground and it became a snake…" Uh-oh. This
is getting worse, not better. When your staff
becomes a snake, it looks like you're going
backward when you need God to comfort you.
"'A staff,' he replied. The Lord said, 'Throw it
on the ground.' Moses threw it on the ground and
it became a snake, and he ran from it." Well, that
makes sense. I would do that too. "Then the Lord
said to him, 'Reach out your hand and take it by
the tail.' So Moses reached out and took hold of
the snake and it turned back into a staff in
his hand. 'This,' said the Lord, 'is so that
they may believe that the Lord, the God of their
fathers—the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and
the God of Jacob…'" "This is so that they may
believe that that God has appeared to you."
Now, drop down, please, to verse 17, because
God gives him two more signs to show him
that he's with him, that he's to perform in
the palace before Pharaoh and in the desert
before the Israelites, but Moses argues with
God. He even tries to say, "I'm not a very
good speaker. How can I tell Pharaoh to let
your people go when I'm not even eloquent?"
Well, the Lord said, "I'm not asking you to take a
speech class; I'm asking you to take a faith step,
because I don't need your ability; I need
your availability." Who is that for today?
Right. Right. Right. Right. But let me show
you one more thing. When God tells Moses,
"Well, I'm going to give you your brother
Aaron. He's going to help you since you can't
do it alone. I've already got your partner
lined up…" Watch this in verse 17. He says,
"But take this staff in your hand so
you can perform the signs with it."
"So you can perform the signs with it." Then go to
verse 19. "Now the Lord had said to
Moses in Midian, 'Go back to Egypt,
for all those who wanted to kill you are dead.'
So Moses took his wife and sons, put them on a
donkey and started back to Egypt. And he took
the staff of God in his hand." I love that.
Today, the Lord told me to give you a word, and
the word is this: It Still Works. It still works.
Hallelujah. God woke me up this morning at 4:00
in the morning and said, "Just get ready to tell
somebody, 'It still works.'" So, I've got good
news for you today. In spite of what it is that
has been reverberating in your ear, causing
you to fear, the Lord said, "It still works."
Touch all seven people you can
reach and say, "It still works."
It still works. It still works. You may be
seated. On your way to your seat, shout,
"It still works!" Mm-hmm. It still works.
Let's talk about this for a moment. What
a job. Right? We understand Moses' hesitation
because we understand that he's over his head.
"You mean you want me to go to the most powerful
man in the world and tell him to let your people
go who have been in Egypt for 430 years? Wow."
We understand his hesitation. We have grace for
Moses' need for clarification when he says,
"What if they don't believe in me?" I mean,
of course you would wonder that if
they had rejected you 40 years earlier.
Do you remember how the story of
Moses begins? He's put in a basket,
and he is discovered by Pharaoh's daughter,
but he is raised as an Egyptian. So,
he is Egyptian by background, but he's
Hebrew by birth. This presents a conflict,
because to be an Egyptian is one
thing, to be a Hebrew is another,
but Moses is both. Because Moses is both,
he is uniquely positioned to do this job.
But Moses, like many of us, has been spending
years of his life paying the price of regret for
a mistake he made earlier with a passion he did
not know how to manage, because God had put it in
his heart for a long time to help his people, but
one day, when he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew
slave, he killed the Egyptian and hid him in the
sand. The next day, two Hebrews were fighting,
and he said, "Why are y'all fighting?
Y'all are supposed to be on the same side."
I wish we could preach some of that in politics
today. I wish we could preach some of that in
the church today. "You're supposed to be on
the same side. Really? Y'all are fighting?"
One of them turned to him with an attitude and
said, "Are you going to kill me like you did
the Egyptian?" And Moses ran to Midian, because
he said, "What I did must have become known."
He ran and he ran and he ran and he ran
until a well appeared. Moses' name means
drawn out of water. Isn't it interesting that
he met his wife drawing water for her from a
well? He finds out that her father's name
is Jethro, and he settles in tending sheep
for Jethro. But now God has a job for Moses
that is bigger than Jethro, and God says,
"I need you to go." Moses said, "I don't
know if they'll believe this. First of all,
who am I to go to Pharaoh? And secondly, who
are you? What do I tell them about all of this?"
So, as we settle into the text,
we understand that it's a mess,
because Moses is a murderer who's being turned
into a messenger. That's always messy when
God gives you an assignment that contradicts
your current understanding of your identity,
because whenever God gives you something to do,
you will try to overlay who you think you are
onto what he has called you to do. But Moses is
about to find out that God works in crazy ways.
Now, as much as I respect Moses' decision to do
what God called him to do, we need to be direct
about the fact that he doubted God. He doubted
God so much that God became angry with him,
but God's anger did not cancel the assignment.
God simply sent him forward in power as he
leaned on his staff. I'm going to
talk about the staff in a moment,
but I want to make this personal first of all.
A few years ago, I had something
that God had called me to do,
and I became very intimidated about
it. I had a bad attitude about it,
but I did it anyway. After I did it, I was
driving home, and God had so handled all
the things I was worried about that I didn't
even have to deal with them when I got there.
So, I felt grateful, but I also felt guilty,
because I had made it to be this
huge thing in my mind. I mean,
how many of you have done this before? I made
it to be this huge thing in my mind. Like, "Oh,
I've got to call my coach and tell him I'm not
coming back next year, and my coach is going to
kill me." Your coach isn't going to kill you.
Your coach is just going to say, "Thank you."
But you make it out to be this huge thing in
your mind. You make it out to be something
so much bigger than it is. Then, a lot
of times, God just deals with Jezebel,
and you never even have to. It almost made
me feel so guilty about my attitude that
I couldn't even enjoy the achievement of
doing the thing God had called me to do.
It's like when you take your kids on a vacation,
but now you're going to have to send them
to therapy to deal with the way you acted
on vacation. Come on, talk to me. Talk to me
or I'll prophesy! It's the feeling of, like,
"God, I'm so sorry." So, I was coming home
in my car, and it just went so beautifully,
but I had been so burdened about it, and I
just felt bad about it. I couldn't even enjoy
how good it went because I felt so guilty.
I was like, "I had such a bad attitude."
And the Lord showed me something. Sometimes
great faith is taking the right action with
a bad attitude. I'm going to say it again
for the note takers. Sometimes great faith
is taking the right action with a bad
attitude. As I was praying to the Lord,
I was like, "I'm so sorry I had such a bad
attitude. You took care of it. You handled
it. I didn't even have to worry about it,
God. I was so worried. I was so stressed.
I complained so much, and then you just did
it. I'm so sorry, God, that I doubted you."
It was like the Lord spoke to me. He said,
"You're embarrassed because you doubted.
I'm proud because you did it." I don't know
who it's for, but the heart of the Father
wanted to say that to you today. You have been
beating yourself up so much about your doubts
that you are not even celebrating how much
you have done and how far you have come and
how many ways you have changed, because all
you keep focusing on is "God, I'm so sorry
that I had such a bad attitude. God, I'm so
sorry that I blew up at the kids like that."
Well, at least you didn't kill them. I mean,
at least they're still here. The Bible says if
you train up a child in the way they should go,
when they're old they won't depart from it. That
means all you've got to do is not kill them,
and God will fix it. In the meantime, just let
them live. Somebody shout, "Let them live."
Some days that's all you can do is just to say,
"Hey, I didn't do that perfectly, but I did it."
The first point of my message is sometimes
you've got to do it doubting. Sometimes
you've got to do it doubting. Notice in the text
that Moses' first response to the assignment is
not gratitude. Moses' first response to the
assignment is not to receive it but to run.
Just in case you're dealing with something
in your life right now, and you're looking
at it like a snake on the ground that God has
told you to grab by the tail, that's okay.
It is natural to run from something you
have never seen in this form before. I am
concerned that you are beating yourself up
so much about your fear that you have not
properly contextualized the magnitude of the
faith it took for you to be where you are.
A fellow told me one time, "I don't like when
I go to church when the preacher just tells me
I'm doing good and makes me feel good. I just
need the preacher to step on my toes. You know,
man, just slap me in the face, man. Just
spank me a little bit." I'm like, "Dude,
that's not my gig. I don't know what you… You
need to call somebody else for all that you just
mentioned." Maybe it's because everything
I ever did for God, I did it doubting.
Every sermon I ever preached to you,
my hands were shaking while I held
my pen. I'll show you my handwriting,
and you'll believe me then. You'll say,
"Pastor Steven would have been a serial killer
in another life. Look at that handwriting."
You'd be psychoanalyzing me. No, it's because
I had to do it doubting. You know, Graham,
I think Exodus 4:1 is my whole preaching
life verse, because this is the verse I've
felt the most preaching up here. "What if
they don't believe me or listen to me?"
I wish my biggest preaching verse was Isaiah
6:8. "Here am I. Send me." But really,
my preaching verse, how I feel, is "What
if they don't believe me or listen to me?"
I want to start this sermon this way,
because I'm going to encourage you in
a moment about the things in your life that
look impossible to you right now. Let me be
less vague than that. The current thing
in your life that you are doubting about.
I don't even necessarily mean you're doubting
God. You might just be doubting you. I don't
even mean you doubt that God is good; I just
mean you feel like you are not good enough.
Everything I have ever done for God I have
never felt good enough to do. So, do with that
what you will. Judge me if you want to. Make
fun of me if you want. Tell me that I should
have more confidence in Christ if you must. But
everything I ever did for God I did it doubting.
Every song I ever wrote from the Lord I did
feeling like a bad singer. Every chord I ever
strummed to write a hymn for our church to sing I
did it wishing I knew more music theory. You don't
understand what I'm saying. Everything I ever
did for God… Every time I ever played back one
of my preaching clips and listened to it, I had
to cringe to find the clip because I didn't even
like the way I sounded. Everything I ever did for
God I did it doubting. But I did it. But I did it.
Sometimes great faith is not eliminating doubt; it
is looking at doubt right in the face and telling
doubt, "You can sit in the passenger seat, but you
can't drive, because we're doing this." High-five
somebody and say, "I'm doing this." There's a
whole word in this right now. Do it doubting,
but do it. Do it afraid, but do it. Do
it with suicidal thoughts, but do it.
Live another day thinking you don't deserve
to be on the earth, but live another day.
Take another breath feeling anxious, but
take another breath. Give God a praise not
feeling a goose bump, but lift your hands.
Lift your hands with your shoulder hurting,
but lift your hands. Lift your hands with
a bad back, but lift your hands. Do it.
And I'll tell you something. Worship will
work whether you feel it or not. I said,
"Worship will work whether you feel it or not."
Tell somebody, "It'll work." It'll work. Worship
still works. Worship still works when it's the
middle of the night and there's nobody around to
listen to you cry, and you cry out to God, saying,
"When my heart is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock
that is higher than I." It'll work. It'll work.
I know it will work, because the people of
God in Exodus, chapter 4, had been enslaved
for four centuries, and Moses has been in exile
for four decades. But this text pops up into the
transitional moment to remind us that it still
works. Because God said to Moses (watch this),
"The cries of my people have reached
heaven." What's he saying? "I heard.
I heard." And even as the burdens of the
people grew heavier, God says, "I heard."
See, you think when it doesn't happen God
didn't hear. So, for all of those years that
Moses tended sheep and thought, "It's over; I
blew it…" For all those years that you thought,
"If I could just go back and do it different,
I would…" For all those years that you have
thought it was over… For all those years that the
people prayed, "God, send us a deliverer. God,
send us a sign. God, set us free," God
came down to Moses to say, "It worked."
So, I want to remind you today that your prayers
aren't pointless, even if you don't have proof
that they're heard. Please write that down
and put it somewhere you can see it when the
Enemy tries to tell you it's not working
this week. "My prayers are not pointless,
even if I have no proof they have been heard."
God might be multitasking some things in your life
right now. God might be setting some things up for
a generation from now that you don't know about.
God might need you to help somebody in the
future, so you've got to go through hell right
now so you can help them later. God heard you.
Oh, I feel anointed today. I'm not even saying
I'm anointed for everybody in the room. Maybe
just for three people. Maybe for 300. Maybe
for somebody in the back. Maybe for somebody in
overflow. But the Lord said, "It's not pointless."
My prayers are not pointless
because my God has a plan.
Keep praying for your babies. Keep praying
about what's going on that the doctors can't
figure out. Keep praying about it. It's not
pointless. This is what Exodus 4 teaches me,
that God's lack of activity
does not mean God's absence.
Just because he is not active in the
way that I have prescribed for him to
be does not mean his purpose isn't working. It
still works. Say it again. "It still works."
This sermon has three points, but it's really
only one point. "It still works." Even if you
do it doubting, it works. I mean, isn't it just
amazing that if you go in the weight room and lift
weights and you lift them hard enough, you'll
get stronger whether you wanted to go in the
weight room or not? Because it still works if you
didn't want to. Isn't that the case? Is that true?
If I put my body under the right amount
of stress with the right form for the
right amount of time under tension, my body
will respond to that whether or not I had
the feeling and the motivation that I wanted
to do it. Bodily exercise profiteth little,
but godliness has great value, and it means
that it still works. Come to church, listen,
and go, "I didn't get anything
out of that." Well, first of all,
that's your fault, because I study. But
secondly, you don't even know that yet.
What if it worked? What if it went in like
a seed and it's going to come up like an oak
at a later season in your life? It still works.
It still works. Now, you may go through winter,
but every winter yields to spring. It still
works. I can't hardly get off of point number one,
and I don't know why. There must be
somebody in here who needed to be
reminded that you can do it doubting, that
you can pray with chains still on your feet.
You can praise with shackles still on your hands.
Ask Paul and Silas. I said, "Ask Paul and Silas."
They were fastened in the inner cell. That's
the hardest place to get out of. But ask Paul
and Silas. If you sing at midnight, even when
you don't see anything happening, even when you
have no proof that the chains are starting to
weaken… If you will worship in this situation…
And I'm saying in this moment right now. I
double-dog dare you to throw up your hands
and open your mouth and say, "Do it, God. I
praise you, God, because you're good, God, and
you're worthy, God, and you're mighty, God, and
you're holy, God." And it works if you work it.
So, sometimes you have to do
it doubting, and number two,
sometimes you have to do it delayed. Delayed.
Do you know what I mean by delayed? God
asks you to do something on this Tuesday
that is only going to make sense in two
years. Or maybe I could say it like this:
God tells you to pick up a snake by the tail. That
is the exact wrong way. Not that I've ever picked
up snakes, although there is probably some account
that says we do it every Sunday in our church,
along with our baptism waterslide that we
have that I've never seen before except
Photoshop. I never did it, but I know
if I did it, I wouldn't do it like that.
See, this is the pattern. Let me preach. This
is what God is trying to show Moses. Like,
"I grab you the way I want to.
I grab you in a way that doesn't
make sense. I use things that don't
make sense to get your attention."
Please write this down. God's sovereign plan does
not always make practical sense. God's sovereign
plan, the plan that he has marked out before time
began… Remember, God was working this deliverance
narrative in his people's life to foreshadow
the work Jesus Christ would do on the cross.
So, when Jesus would show up, he would
lead not only through the cross he died on,
but through the life he lived, he would lead
us to freedom as our true Moses. Knowing that,
we understand that God is working things
out in a way that seems weird to us. I'm at
the point in my life where I'm willing to be
weird if it works. You know what I'm saying?
Now, in order to grab this snake by the
tail… Just imagine this. Moses is like,
"All right. You want me to do…what? Okay. No."
And he runs, and he resists for a little while,
but remember, great faith sometimes is doing
it delayed. Okay. So, he wastes some time not
only running from the snake, but he has been 40
years running from his assignment. Forty years.
And God shows up to say, "I'm
going to do it through you anyway."
I break the spirit of accusation over your life
that has told you it's too late. I break the
spirit of accusation over your life that says
you can't get it back. I break the spirit of
condemnation over your life that says you cannot
become what God has called you to be. I break
the spirit of condemnation that tries to stamp
you with your worst mistake, because the life
of Moses tells me that my past mistake is not
my permanent verdict. That's what it shows me.
When I say, "Past mistake," I mean it could be
five years ago; it could be five minutes ago,
but that will not define me, because
God has a plan for me. God has a plan
for the things I did right. God has
a plan for the things I did wrong.
God has a plan for my doubts just as much as God
has a plan for my bold declarations of faith.
Moses picks up the snake by the tail, but
not at first. Moses is used as a messenger,
but before he's a messenger, he's a murderer. I
just want to remind you that God makes all things
beautiful in his time. Sometimes you've got
to do it on a delay and just pray stuff like,
"God, I pray that you would make up for
the time I wasted. God, I pray that you
would put me on an accelerated course. God, I
pray that you would put me in summer school so
I can graduate with all my friends. God, I
pray that you will just give me the grace."
And God says, "Okay," because once
Moses got on the same page with God,
it only took 10 plagues for God to
do what he was going to do. It's not
going to take as long as you think it's
going to take. It's not going to take
everything you think it's going to take,
because sometimes God does it on a delay.
That means you've got to praise him in
advance in case he does it on delay,
because you don't know. You don't know.
The Lord anointed me to preach today that
sometimes you've got to do it on a delay. Do
it on a delay. I mean, we all get stuck in
the past sometimes. I've been stuck in the
past a lot lately…in a fun way, actually.
I've been going around buying records, albums,
LPs, vinyl. I probably bought about 300 in the
last year. It's getting ridiculous. I'm going to
tell you why it's getting ridiculous. Because I
already had all that stuff on my phone, and now
I'm spending money on what I already subscribed to
Spotify to hear, but there's something comforting
about it. So, you know, I've been buying records.
Now, I don't want you to
think I'm older than I am.
When I grew up, records were on the way out.
We had cassette tapes, and then… Get ready to
shout. Every Boomer in the house, just shout right
now. Gen X, just shout right now. Everybody make
some noise; put your hands up. If you know
__________ (27:50), put your hands up. Now,
you may say to me, like the Lord said
to Moses, "What is that in your hand?"
Come here, Graham. Come here, come here, come
here. All right. This is a boombox. And not only
that, but this is a Sanyo boombox with a cassette
deck and… Everybody say, "And." Because Moses was
a Hebrew and an Egyptian. This is a cassette and
CD player. This is the first CD player I ever
owned, but this is not the original, because I
got rid of mine because I thought it was obsolete.
Sometimes you need to hang
around with your old stuff,
and sometimes you need to be careful not selling
something you might want to buy back later.
I went on eBay, and I found
this exact model of the boombox.
I plugged it in, and the lights came on, and I got
excited. I put the CD in, because I've been buying
those too. I only bought about 100 of those in the
last year, but I've been buying those too. I don't
know if midlife is just stressing me out to the
point that I just need every escape valve. Hey,
there are worse midlife crises than CDs
and records, so if I keep it to vinyl,
I'm doing very good. Tell somebody, "He's doing
very good." Mm-hmm. I'm doing really good.
I turned it on, and I put the CD in, and it
didn't work. It didn't work. But, I mean, what
else would you expect? It has been around since
1994. Who knows what kind of devil music has been
played in this machine? The Lord shut it down. It
didn't work. And just as I was about to put it up…
Because it was no refunds. The seller told
me that up front. Forty bucks is gone. I
remembered that just because one thing doesn't
work (hold it up) doesn't mean it's worthless.
So, I went and found a cassette. I've been
collecting those, too, lately. Sometimes
you've got to reach back to where God brought
you from. I found a cassette tape from Jackson
Memorial Baptist Church, 89…(Son, my eyes are
messing up; read that for me)…8931 Highway 11,
Campobello, South Carolina, 29322. And it
says, "Steven, October 29, the year 2000."
(I'll tell you about Y2K later. We almost lost
everything. You think the Red Sea was a miracle.
Wait till I tell you about Y2K, boy, when I tell
you what the Lord did for us in Y2K.) I put it in,
and at first I started to cringe. Listen to
me preaching in the year 2000 in Campobello,
South Carolina. You've heard me preach
in California, but you've never heard my
anointed work in Campobello. But I want you to
understand that the same anointing that works
in California was working in Campobello.
Listen to this. Can y'all hear that?
I mean, it's good enough. That's my
mentality nowadays. It's good enough. Hey,
it might not be the way I like it. It might
not be my personal preference. The preacher
might not be making a bit of sense to me, but
it's good enough. I'm going to take some notes,
and I'm going to learn what I can from
it, because praise is a privilege.
It's a privilege to be in
church. It is a privilege
to be in this church with you guys this morning.
Yeah. Not a single "Amen," but I was
preaching. About 15 people in the church,
but I was preaching. I didn't know anything I was
talking about, but I was preaching. We were all
stocking up on bottled water and ramen noodles
for the apocalypse to come, but I was preaching.
I wonder, did the Lord want to give us a
message today from this cassette tape from
a boombox that didn't work, but it did work with
a word I had been preaching? Because I realized,
listening to myself preaching with
a country accent in Campobello,
South Carolina, in 2026 that I have been
preaching the same book for 30 years.
I preached it with twang, and I preached it in
small spaces, and I preached it on tapes, and I
preached it on CDs, and I preached it on podcasts,
and I preached it on YouTube, and I preached it on
Roku, and I preached it on Apple TV. I've been
preaching one book and believing one book for
30 years, and I came to announce it still works. I
said, "It still works!" I said, "It still works!"
Faith still works. Faith still works.
Grace still works. Gratitude still works.
"Hallelujah" still works. "Thank you,
Jesus" still works. It still works! If
you know what I'm talking about, wave
your hand and say, "It works for me."
It has been working for me a long time,
and it still works. It still works.
I've got some doubts I didn't have then, but it
still works. I've got some unanswered questions,
but it still works. My faith is not having the
answer; my faith is putting my hand in the hand
of a man who does. It still works. Y'all don't get
it. I'm trying to say that the method has changed,
but the message is the same. It still works.
I'm trying to say don't let what doesn't work
in your life keep you from using what does, and
I'm trying to say that what God gave you then
is good enough to get you through (Where's
my band?) what you're going through now.
So, tell somebody, "It'll work.
It'll work. It'll work. It'll work."
Won't it work? I said, "Won't it work?" Not
if you don't work it, if you're like, "This
is weird." Thank you. Sit down. Take the boombox
with you. Take that staff with you, so when you
get to Egypt you can throw it on the ground and
watch what it'll become. Throw it on the ground.
See, now, give me the cassette tape
back. I want to show this all the
way. I heard a testimony the other
day. We always say… God. Help us,
Jesus. I never said I was a good dad. I
never said I taught my kids important things.
He can't open the cassette tape. How are
you going to run a revival…? How are you
going to be anointed by God and you can't play
a tape? Love that boy. I bleached my hair too.
My hair ain't black anymore, but my anointing
still works. Okay. I'm going to tell you this,
and I'll start thinking about finishing my
sermon. Tell somebody, "It still works."
I was amazed that the boombox still
worked. I was amazed that there was
part of it that did work and part of it
that didn't work, and choosing to say,
"I'm going to use what…" I was amazed when
I put the tape in, and I was like, "Yo,
listen to that kid, 20 years old, hollering at
those people, telling them, 'It's a privilege
to be here in church, a privilege to praise
God. Amen.'" I need to bring some of that
back. I need to bring some of that country
preaching back in this church. It still works.
Well, I got a testimony that confirmed this
message, because I'm always trying to make sure
I have the word the Lord wants me to deliver. Now,
back in the day, you had to wait six weeks before
you could get a sermon. They had to mail it to
you on tape. Now people can just watch online,
and sometimes it still takes a delay
before I know how God uses a word.
There was a word I preached from Exodus,
chapter 4, ten years ago called Handle It.
Really tight skinny jeans, running around the
stage, preaching on, "Pick up the snake by the
tail," because that's weird, and I was trying
to say, "It's only weird till it works," you
know. Like, trusting God, holding out. "You're a
virgin? That's weird." No. It works, because I'm
protecting myself, because I know the value God
has put on my life. So it works. Look. Some of the
things that work in God's kingdom look completely
weird to the world, but forgiveness still works.
Even if it doesn't fix them, it will free
you. Do you see what I mean? That's weird,
but it works. It's weird to grab a snake by the
tail, but it works. It's weird. I was thinking
about another one. It's weird for us to give
to God so that our church can do outreaches,
so that our church can reach the world,
so that our church can preach the gospel.
That is weird, but you find out
that God doesn't need what you have;
you need what he has when you give, and
it allows you to access your faith. So,
people are like, "You give your money
to that church?" "No. I give it to God
through a church." Do you understand? I'm
giving this to God, and that works for me,
because it keeps me free from being mastered
by money. So that's weird, but it works.
I honestly always thought it was weird to put our
sermons online. When we first started
doing that, I thought that was weird,
and I thought it wouldn't work. I even made
that argument. I told a brother one time,
"I don't have that gift to look into a camera and
preach." You know, man, I came from Campobello.
The only reason… I remembered. I listened to the
tape. The only reason I preached at Campobello was
because the maintenance man at the college I was
attending at the time had fixed my shower for me,
and he said, "Now that I fixed your shower, you've
got to come preach at my church." I said, "Deal."
So, when you come from Campobello preaching, you
know, like that, it's hard to get our mind around
the fact that so many people are logged on right
now. I want you to put where you're watching from
on YouTube right now, and I want to do this
illustration. See, the methods have changed,
but the methods… I messed that up, didn't I? The
methods have changed; the message has not. Amen.
And if you go on right now,
people are watching from, I mean,
all over the world. Sometimes I get a
testimony from Alabama, from Michigan,
from Denver, from San Diego, from Utah,
from Missouri…that's wild, man…Orlando,
Connecticut, Texas. Y'all think I'm talking
about me and preaching? I'm not. I'm talking
about you and the challenge of your life
right now that you feel insufficient for.
I'm trying to tell you I've always doubted
what I could do. There have been times in my
life I preached and felt nothing worked. Do you
understand me? I went back and I prayed, "God,
what even was that?" Well, 10 years ago, I was
preaching this same passage. A couple of years
after that, there was a man in Greenville,
South Carolina, who relayed his story to me.
He was in the middle of a horrible divorce,
and he had a 9mm on his coffee table. He
was in his apartment alone, and he
didn't know what to do. He said,
"I had this weird feeling. Something
told me to plug up the Apple TV that my
mom had brought over to my house a few days
earlier, and so I did, and it felt weird."
Then he said, "After I plugged
it in, trying to figure out,
'Do I even want to be here?' something
came up as I logged in on the screen,
and it was a purple icon that said 'Podcast.' I
had never listened to a podcast. Something said,
'Click it,' and I clicked it. I clicked
that purple icon that said 'Podcast,'
and then an orange icon came up that said
'Elevation,' and something said, 'Click it.'"
Listen to me. He said, "Something said,
'Click it,'" and he clicked it. He said,
"It was a sermon of a preacher I never heard
of before, saying, 'Handle it. Handle it.' And
halfway through your sermon, you said, 'You're
sitting on the couch, and you're wondering,
"Do I even want to be here?" and God wanted you
to know it's handled. Get up off the couch.'"
He said, "I got up and started walking
around my apartment. I can't explain
exactly what happened that day, and I
know it sounds weird, but God started
working in my life. It felt weird to plug up
an Apple TV with a gun on the coffee table,
but I plugged it up." "It felt weird to
reach down and grab a snake by the tail."
"It feels weird for me to keep showing
up even though nobody appreciates me.
It feels weird for me to even be
in church today because, honestly,
I'm still struggling so much with
my past. I can't even really focus
on what you're saying right now. It feels
weird for me to believe God could use me."
He said, "But I started walking around,
and all I can tell you is that that day,
when I plugged in that TV and God hit me with
that podcast…" It was a word that was preached
10 years ago from the exact Scripture I am
preaching to you today. All I can tell you is
it still works. With a gun on his coffee table,
the Word of God was powerful enough to say,
"I see you. I've got you. I've got something for
you." And the best part of his testimony is that
he told me, today, he is a worship leader in a
local church, because it still works. It works!
Shove somebody and say, "It works!" It
has always worked, and it still works.
Come on. Clap those hands and praise God like
you know that the King of glory is working in
ways you can't see. You shall live and not die! It
still works! It still works. In my darkest hour,
it worked. In my lowest moment, it worked.
In my most hopeless situation, it worked.
Moses took that staff (I'm almost done), and
he picked it up, and it became a staff. When
he got in front of Pharaoh, he and Aaron
said, "Watch this." Boom! And it still
worked. It not only worked in private;
it worked in public. It still worked.
When Pharaoh said, "I'm not letting your people
go," Moses said, "All right," and he stuck up the
staff, and hail started falling out of the sky,
because no matter how much resistance you face,
it still works. When he still wouldn't let the
people go, Moses pointed it, and frogs covered the
land. And when he still wouldn't let the people
go, he pointed it, and the Nile became blood.
But there came a moment for Moses that is like the
moment most of us are in today. It goes like this.
You know it. The people of God have come
out of Egypt. They are moving into their
freedom as sons and daughters, but they
are not yet free. They have to cross a
body of water known as the Red Sea or the Sea
of Reeds. As they stand at that body of water,
they hear the sound of 400 chosen chariots of
Pharaoh, the hit men coming to bring them back.
There would be no hope in this situation, even for
the most well-suited army, much less millions of
slaves and runaways on foot. "What is the sound
we hear behind us? We cried to the Lord to bring
us out of Egypt, and here we are looking at
a Red Sea." Moses, in an effort to do crowd
control… Because this is getting out of hand
quickly, as they begin to say, "Why didn't you
leave us in Egypt? Why didn't you leave us where
we were? This is worse than where we came from."
Sometimes you get there with God. You're like,
"I'm trying to do what God called me to do,
but it actually feels more difficult to
do it God's way." At that very moment,
Moses gives a speech. Exodus 14. "'Do not
be afraid. Stand firm and you will see the
deliverance the Lord will bring you today. The
Egyptians you see today you will never see again.
The Lord will fight for you; you need only
to be still.' Then the Lord said to Moses,
'Why are you crying out to me?'" "You know what
to do. Tell the Israelites to plug in the Apple
TV. Tell the Israelites to go back to quoting
the Word of God. Tell the Israelites to wash
their face and move on." "Raise your staff
and stretch out your hand over the sea to
divide the water so that the Israelites
can go through the sea on dry ground."
What I wanted to show you today from the
Bible (leave the verse up) is that the
same staff that was on the ground was the
staff that was going to work in the water.
The reason I wanted you to see that today
is because the children of Israel had no
point of reference for this Red Sea, had no
way of knowing how God was going to do it.
Maybe you don't either, and you're standing there
saying, "God, I feel like I've lost it. God,
I feel like this is too much. God, I've never
been this way before, and I don't know what to
do." God says, "You still got that staff? You
still got that Word? You still got that praise?
You still got that gift? Then stand up on your
feet and lift your hands and praise your God,
because the same faith that you got at the
burning bush is going to get you through this."
God said it'll get you through this. It'll get you
through it. It'll get you through the dry season.
It'll get you through the panic attack. It'll
get you through it, because it still works. It
worked on the ground; it'll work in the water.
It worked when you were young; it'll work when
you're old. Somebody shout, "I've never seen the
righteous forsaken." It'll work. It'll work in
this season. It'll work when they like you. It'll
work when they hate you. It'll work when they lie
about you. It'll work when they leave you. I'm a
living testimony that the Word of God still works.
Hey, thank you for watching the Elevation Church
YouTube. I want you to subscribe. That way you
can know when we go live and post new content.
Make sure to leave me a comment. Let me know what
spoke to you today, where you're watching from,
and what we can pray for you about. And if you'd
like to support the ministry financially, you can
click the give button now and help us continue
reaching people around the world for Jesus
Christ. Thanks again. I'll see you next time.